How are you?
I am good dear
That is good to hear my dear
Thank you for asking
You are always welcome
What is your name?
You can call me Chatty Batty
My name is Chatty Batty
I am Chatty Batty

Hey, Brett, how are you? 
Pretty good, how are you? 
Good, thank you. 
Hey, do you want to play a game? 
Sure. What sort of game? 
Let's play 20 questions. 
OK, go ahead. 
OK, who am I thinking about? 
Man? Is it a male? 
Yes, it's a male. 
Is he an actor? 
Yes, he's an actor. 
Does he have short hair? 
Yes, he has short hair. 
Right. Is he famous? 
Yes, he's famous. 
Does he have blue eyes? 
Yes. 
He does have blue eyes? 
No, he has... 
He doesn't have blue eyes? 
No, he doesn't have blue eyes. 
Does he have brown eyes? 
Yes.  
Is he short? 
No. 
Is he in the Ocean's 12? 
Yes.  
He is! 
Yes. 
OK. Is he married, currently? 
NO.  He isn't married? 
No. 
OK. Is he tall? 
Yes. 
OK. Is he George Clooney? 
Yes.  S
Great. OK, my turn now. Who am I think about it?  
Is he a male? 
Yes.  
Is he an actor? 
No.  
Is he a singer? 
No. 
Is he a politician? 
Yes.  
Does he have white hair? 
Yes. 
Yes. Is he American? 
No. 
Is he British? 
No. 
Is he Australian? 
Yes.  
Is he your Prime Minister? 
He is. 
Is he John Howard? 
Yes, he is. Well done.  

OK, Keith, if you won 1,000,000 dollars? No, wait, 10,000,000 dollars.
10,000,000 seriously....
If you won 10,000,000, what would you do?
Well, first thing I'd do, I'd probably buy a nice house for me and my wife.
OK, where would this house be?
Oh, I don't know. We'll have to talk about that with the wife but probably somewhere near Tokyo.
OK. Would yo buy a house in the city or the country?
Well, a little further out of the middle of Tokyo.
So, it'd be in Japan.?
Yeah, in Japan, but some place not too crowded.
OK, would you have animals at this house?
Not if I could help it.
Really. No dog?
Well, maybe a dog, but an outside dog.
You got to have a dog, man.

OK, Ramon, we're going to talk about abilities.
OK 
Can you cook?
I can cook a little bit. I like cooking.
What do you like to make when you cook?
Just simple things. I love salad. I make a huge salad.
I love salad. OK, can you sing?
No, I can't sing. I just sing for me. On the...when I have a shower.
Oh, really, you sing in the shower? Nice, what, what songs do you sing? Like pop songs or just...?
No, mainly reaggae. I love reggae.
Wow! Can you play any musical instruments?
Dijuridu! 
Oh, really. 
It's an Australian instrument.
Yeah, yeah. Where did you learn that?
I learned in Switzerland.
Really. OK. Is it popular in switzerland?
Yeah, it's popular. Everybody knows about it.
Wow. How long have you played?
A couple of years maybe. Maybe 4 years.

do you like to sing?
I wish I could sing, but no, I don't sing 
Yeah, OK Neither do I Do you like dancing? 
Yes, I do 
OK Uhwhat kind of dancing do you like?
Oh, just not ballroom dancing, but just the ordinary one, you know, the just kind of just normalnothing special 
Nothing special, no OK Do you like to cook? 
Yes, I do 
OK What, what do you like to cook?
I like to cook vegetables, yeah Vegetables! OK 
And do you like to exercise? 
Very much so I go, I used to go to the gym three times a week before I arrived in Tokyo 
OK 
Yeah, I used to go to a gym, but now I just run 
Last one! do you like to clean? 
I like a clean place, but I don't really like to clean, no!   

Hello!
Hello dear!
Hi Could you say your name please?
Sophie Wilkins
Sophie Wilkins Sophie, where are you from?
I'm from Adelaide, South Australia
Oh, nice Adelaide What's Adelaide like?
It's a big country town, although it is actually a capital city of South Australia
OK Is it like over a million people or?
It's about 18 million people
Oh, that's pretty big Nice How long have you lived there?
I've lived there for about six years
Six years!
Mm!
OK So, you weren't born there?
No, no I was actually born on a farm in mid-north South Australia
Oh, nice Farmer girl 
Yeah!
That's cool OK So what, what do you think about Australia?
I love it I love the space, how clean it is, the health, the lifestyle It's very healthy, and the people as well
OK Great, so after Japan are you going to go back to Australia?
Temporarily I think yes For a couple of months and then hopefully come back to Japan
OK Great Thanks
Alright 

OK Ramon, we're going to talk about opposites
OK
What is big?
The earth is big 
Yeah, I agree What is small?
I'm small on the earth
That's true How much do you weigh?
I weigh 65
Wow! 65 kilograms
Yeah
Yeah, yeah I'm a little bit heavier, about 72What is expensive?
A big house is expensive
Yeah, pretty much anywhere Oohloud motorcycle Sorry! What is small? I meanI'm sorrywhat is cheap?
What is cheap? The 100 Yen shop is cheap
Yeah What can you buy at a 100 Yen shop?
About everything
Yeah
Which is good
Do you think 100 Yen shops are a good idea, or do you think they're environmentally a bad idea?
No, I like the 100 Yen shop
Yeah The cheap stuff Actually I do to It's nice Alright Thanks a lot

OK, we're going to talk about apples
OK
do you like apples?
Yeah So-so
how often do you eat apples?
Once a week, I would say
Once a week How much is an apple in Japan?
In Japan, it depends on the season
Uh-huh
If it's like summer season's gonna be very expensive
Uh-huh
Uh-huh But you meanare you talking about now?
Yeah, like right nowhow much does an apple cost?
I would say maybe about a 10015450 yen per an apple
Really! Yeahthat's that's kind of expensive
Yeah
Where do apples come from?
Aomori Prefecture
Aomori! Really!
which is in the northern part of Japan
OK Ohalright And what colors are apples?
Red or green or yellow
OK Which color is your favorite?
Red
Red Yeah Yeah Actually I like the green apples
Really! Why?
I don't know I justin America we have sour green apples
Does it taste different than the red apples?
Yeah, like the red apples are sweetand the green apples in Americathey're very sour
Oh
Yeahsothey're very nice Um, one last thing! What can you make with apples?
Apple Juice, apple pie, and apple tea
Apple tea
Yeah
OK And can you make apple pie?
No, not really
Yeah Man, me neither
OK Thanks
Thanks

do you like the beach?
I love the beach The beach is great
OK Why do you love the beach?
It's nice fresh air, beautiful water, you can play in the sand, and my hobby is surfing, so I like to go surfing
Ohnice How often do you go surfing?
I try to go as often as possible, usually every weekend
OK When do you go to the beach? Saturday? Sunday?
Usually early on a Saturday morning Try to beat the crowds
OK What do you do at the beach besides surfing?
Oh, just relax on the sand, watch the people, maybe have a swim, throw a frisbee
OK
Things like that!
How long have you been surfing?
Since I was ten years old
Wow, since you were ten That's great! -- What do you take to the beach, when you go?
A towel, and my hat, my sunscreen, my surfboard, wetsuit, some food and water, and maybe a radio
OK Now, you are from Australia How are the beaches  different in Australia than Japan?
The beaches are much bigger and white sand, clean water, very nice
OK Well, sounds good Thanks a lot Trevor
OK Catch you later

do you like bread?
Yes, I do
OK What kind of bread do you eat?
I try to eat whole grain bread or bagels or something that's dark 
OK What do you like to put on bread?
My favorite thing to put on bread is tomatoes and I also like honey
OK But not together?
Not together, no
Do you like mustard?
No, I don't like mustard
Oh, I love mustard I eat mustard and bread just plain
No, no I know people that eat mustard sandwiches, and no!
OK Can you make bread?
Yes, I can Actually, I'm a baker
Really
Yeah!
Wow!
I'm a pastry chef
That's incredible
Although, bread is kind of a different branch I do cakes and stuff like that I can make bread My grandmother makes bread all the time

do you have a camera?
Yeah, I have two cameras I have a digital camera and a SLR camera
OK, which one do you prefer?
Recently I am using the digital camera a lot I can make the photos on my personal computer
OK What do you like to take photos of?
I like to take photos of people, mainly, sometimes landscapes but mainly people
Now you mean your family or strangers?
Oh, family and friends, sometimes strangers
Oh, OK Do you mind being photographed?
No, I like it! No, I'm not shy
OK Do you smile when people take your picture?
Sometimes, or I might make a silly face
A silly face! OK Umwhat kind of pictures do you like to look at?
I like to look at nice landscapes, and cityscapes
Cityscapes!
Yeah, photographs taken in the city
OK Great! And do you have pictures of yourself as a child?
Oh, I've got a couple at home, but they're a bit embarassing
OK Do you have any pictures of your family in your wallet?
Yeah, I've got a picture of my mum and dad
Oh, Wow! Wow, that's nice! OK Thanks, Trevor

hey, how are you feeling today?
I'm realy tired
Yeah, yeah
Kind of, I don't know, my throat's really scratchy, so maybe I'm coming down with something
Oh, no That's terrible Are you taking anything for it?
Actually, I am I had a private student last night and she told me some wild formula to do And she asked me to take coca-cola, boil it, add some ginger, and then drink it, however, I'm caffiene sensitive so it kept me up pretty much all night, so I'm really tired today 
How did it taste?
It wasn't bad If it was probably mid-afternoon, I would love it, but 1130 at night it kept me up
Oh, no
Yeah
Are you going to try it again, but maybe in the morning?
No I think I'm just going to stick with the regular cold syrup, and just take that
Yeah, that stuff tastes terrible
It does

So, do you like cricket
Yes, I like very much
who is the best cricket player in the world?
According to my view, Mr Sachin Tendulkar is the best player
Oh, and he's from India? 
Yeah, he's from India
OK, is he from the south of India or?
He's north India
He's from north India And he's a very good batter?
Yeah, batsman
Batsman
Batsman
OK, so in cricket how many times do you bat in one day?
How many times you bat?
How many times do you get to try to hit the ball?
Until you are out you can bat Until you are out you can bat
Oh, really but you only get one time Like in baseball you bat and another person bats
No, it's not like that Until you get out you can play
Oh, really, 
Yeah 
Oh, OK 
It's like that
Wow and do you play cricket with your friends?
Yes, yes, I used to play cricket with my friends
You said this guys name, what's it, I'm sorry?
Sachin Tendulkar
Wow! I don't know him See I like baseball Do you know who Barry Bonds is?
Yeah, sorry, I don't know anything about baseball
Well, that's OK You teach me about cricket and I'll teach you about baseball

How you doing?
We're back We're gonna talk about your future
What do you want to become?
Well, um, I wanna be a physician's assistant 
OK What is a physician's assistant?
Well, normally when you go into a, into the doctor's office, you wouldn't usually get, well you would get your doctor all they do is check, give you check-ups or you know maybe take out stitches or something, not surgery You just go in and do the little things So the doctor does not have to do them
Oh, OK So that is what you want to do?
Yeah
OK 
And make lots of money
You wanna make lots of money
OK Nothing wrong with that 
How do you become a physici physician's assistant I can't even say it
It's a lot of schooling You have like six years, four or six years of college and you obviously take the,like nursing and other kinds of classes like that and then you do like um, two, two or four years at like a hospital as a
Like an assistant, or
Like, like you're actually doing
Oh, an intern 
An intern, yeah! An internship for two or four years at a hospital 
Then, that's it You finish
And then you hopefully go on and maybe have your own little doctor's place and open that up or something
Well, best wishes on becoming a physician's assistant I'm sure you'll make a good one 
Thank you 

What is your dream job?
My dream job is to become a diplomat representing my country, preferably in Japan That's why I came to Japan to learn Japanese and hopefully obtain a master degree in International Relations After getting my master's degree in International Relations, I would like to go home and enter the diplomat school for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is a three year program, and then, after that hopefully come back to Japan and work for the Norwegian Embassy in Tokyo 
Must be pretty competitive
It's very competitive, but I think if you know a certain language that not many people speak it gives you a competitive edge nevertheless so that's why I came to Japan because I know at this stage there are only 300 hundred people from Norway living in Japan and not all of them are here to study Japanese, they represent different companies or schools, or they're missionaries so, that's the track I'm on right now but we'll see how it goes in the end
How about when you were a child, what was your dream job? Did you want to be a diplomat when you were say, 10?
No, when I was ten I probably didn't know what I wanted to do I was just too busy playing in the street, you know, having fun with my friends and these things When I was that young I really didn't have a dream job like fireman, police I never really went through that stage, you know
I wanted to be a baseball player
Alright, fair enough
I'm still dreaming
Oh, that's good

OK, Hello!
Hello!
We're back What would you like to talk about?
Driving
OK Tell us about driving
Well, I'm gonna get my permit soon and then I get to drive I'm really looking forward to that It's kind of the start of being independent
Yeah, I hear you, so you say permit, is that the same thing as a license?
No, you have to have your permit six months before you can get a license
Oh, really How do you get a permit?
You have to take driving school, then you have to go to the DMV and take a test
OK What is the DMV?
The Department of Motor Vehicles
OK, and they give you your license of permit so you can drive OK, when you have a driver's license what places do you want to go to?
To see my friends and to hang out, just to school and back
OK, nice, so do you have a car right now?
No
OK, are you saving?
Yeah!

OK Keri, can you drive?
Yes, I can
Do you have a driver's license?
I do
OK So, how long have you had your driver's license? 
I think I got it when I was 17 actually 
OK How do you get a driver's license in your country? 
Well, I think it's changed since I was a teenager At that time, you get a learner's permit And then you start driving with your parents And you'd also go to drivers ed And then you had to pass a driving test I think a written test as well 
OK Did you get a perfect score on your driving test?
I was close to perfect, yeah I can't remember my exact score but I remember it was pretty good 
Do all the members of your family drive? 
Yeah 

Hello, what is your favorite food?
My favorite fruit is grapes
Grapes 
Yeah
Oh, really! 
Yes
OK Do you like wine? Do you drink wine?
No, no, I don't drink anything, but I like grapes, the taste is very good 
Do you like?
It's very sweet that's why I like them
Do you like green grapes or purple grapes?
Green, Green grapes
Green grapes 
Yeah
OK, are there many grapes around your hometown in India?
Yes, yeah We have, I used to eat everyday grapes, because I like them very much that's
OK, actually in my home in America we have many grapes where I live also
Oh 
Yeah, and how about what is your favorite season?
My favorite season is winter 
Winter
Yeah, because in India, most of the days will be summer Winter will come for only two months That's why we love winter season
Really?
Yeah, it is very summer, very hot That's why people are very black as a reason 
You like the cool, cool weather 
Yes
Oh, nice I'm the opposite I like warm weather

we're going to talk about destinations 
Alright
Where do you want to go?
I want to go to Thailand
Thailand Why Thailand?
Well, I love that country The people, the food and the culture
OK, and how would you get there?
Well, I guess from Narita Airport
OK, how long would it take to get there?
Approximately 7 hours I would say
7 hours , that's not too bad What would you eat in Thailand?
I would eat Thai food which is something like Pat Thai, which is a Thai noodle, or Tom Yang Gung, which is a Thai soup
OK, is it spicy?
It's spicy 
Really OK, how long would you stay?
As long as I can
OK, Yeah So
As long as I don't get fired
OK, Thailand has nice beaches and nice mountains Which do you prefer the beaches or the moutains?
I prefer the beach
The beach
The beach It's cold here It's getting warm but I like warm weather
OK, yeah, yeah I miss the beach I'm from California, we have nice beaches
Oh, another beach person

OK, I'm going to talk about your favorites 
Sure No problem
What's your favorite color? 
I say, green
Green
Yes
OK And what's your favorite fruit?
My favorite fruit orange
Orange!
Oranges I love oranges Very sweet and good for the body
Yeah, have you had any of the oranges in Japan?
I've had a couple Much better than the ones I have back in Canada
Oh, really OK Um, what's your favorite season?
I'd say spring, cause it's a combination of warm weather, at the same time it's not hot like it is in the summer In spring it's a bit cool You can walk around very relaxed It the best It's a combination of all the seasons in one 
OK what's your favorite movie?
My favorite movie! I'd have to say Gladiator Russel Crow It's a tragic movie about a very strong leader who, how-should-I-say, triumphs over, how-should-I-say, over very overpowering conflicts It's, um, plus, I'm a bit of an action movie buff I know it's sad to hear but, it's definitely an interesting movie 

Uhm, so Nanju, I'm going to ask you about things that people are sometimes afraid of Are you afraid of flying? 
No
No Do you fly a lot?
No, if I am getting opportunity I will be very happy
Really!
Yeah sure!
OK, are you afraid of snakes?
No
No!
No
Now, India has cobras 
Yeah, it's a lot of cobras I have seen a lot of cobras, and fighting with cobras, each other, but run away so I can not
So, you're not afraid of cobras? 
No
Like have you ever seen a cobra by your house?
Yeah, I have seen a lot of cobras, which is going to be 12 feet
Really!
Yeah, sure 
And your not afraid?
No, I will get some sticks and go through about from my home or something
So you get a stick and you go and kill it?
No, I won't kill it Killing of cobra is very illegal in India Not illegal, it's like god, so we won't
Sin It's a sin Oh, wow
So we won't kill that cobra or something
Wow, very fascinating Thank you

How old were you when you had your first boyfriend?
My first proper boyfriend was probably when I was 14
14 What was his name?
His name was Murray
Murray Wow And did you meet him through school?
He went to a different school, he went to a school near my school
OK, so how did you meet him?
We met through mutual friends His friend knew my friend 
OK So now what, so did you actually go on dates with him when you were 14?
Yes, we did 
Wow Where did you go? 
We went to the cinema We used to go and listen to music, watch bands, and we used to go to like the fair, and things like that
Oh, cool So were your parents cool with you having a boyfriend?
Yes, yes They really liked him
Yeah, and they, Wow, that's really good, cause a lot of times parents aren't very cool with
Yeah We went out a long time 
How long did you go out?
Two and a half years, nearly three years
So it finished when you were 17?
Yeah, 17
Do you still keep in touch with him?
Yes, he's living in my flat at the moment
Really, Wow!
Yeah, we're like really good friends
Oh, that's good 
He's renting my flat off of me
Oh, that's cool Wonderful

OK, I'm going to ask you about your favorites. What is your favorite color?
My favorite color, black.
Black! Really, OK, and what is your favorite fruit?
Fruit? OK, it's mango.
Oh, mango. 
Yeah.
OK. Can you get mangoes in Japan?
No, I haven't seen a proper mango here, because everything's very small, that is not a very good mango, I know because in India I will get a lot of mangoes, very good taste, and variety of mangoes, I haven't tried, I haven't found anywhere in Japan.
Really. 
Yeah, sure.
Oh, wow. So how do you eat mango, just do you eat it raw, or do you?
Yeah, I'll eat it raw. The raw mango is very good.
Oh, cool. Nice. So do you have like mango juice? Is that popular?
Yeah. But mango juice, it's not that much good. I eat only raw mango. It will be very good, very good, very good.

Hi, what is so special about Hawaii? 
Well, Hawaii is my home, but to people not from Hawaii, I think Hawaii is famous for its nice weather, its warm all year ‘round, also it’s known for its beaches. The beaches are very nice. And it’s also known for its warm hospitality. The people are also very nice. 
So can you tell me more about the weather? It’s always sunny? It never rains?
It does rain, but often it rains and it's sunny at the same time, so we have a lot of rainbows. Hawaii is also famous for rainbows. 
That’s nice. Can you tell me more about the beach? 
We have beaches on all shores of the island -- all our islands. There’s many beaches to choose from. And often, some beaches have big waves, some beaches have small waves, and you can choose which beach to go to depending on whether you want to surf in big waves or you want to swim where there’s no waves.
Can you tell me maybe about the nature in Hawaii?
We have forests, so there’s lots of animals, like birds, and small animals like wallabies we have Hawaiian wallabies and they live in the forest. 
What’s a wallaby?
Wallabies, they’re those little mammals from Australia and they were introduced in Hawaii and now they’re wild in Hawaii. They’ve become their own species. 
What do they look like? 
They look like little kangaroos I think. 
Interesting. Any other interesting animals in Hawaii?
We have a lot of pigs, wild pigs. We like to go hunting for them and we like to eat them. 
Are there any animals that live in the sea? 
We have nice coral reefs, so there’s lots of beautiful fish in our coral reefs and many people like to go snorkeling to look at our reefs. We also have turtles and seals in Hawaii. 
Are there any whales? 
We do have whales during the months of March till February I believe. They come from Alaska and they come to Hawaii during those months and then they return to Alaska.  Wow, there are a lot of animals that live in Hawaii. Sounds like a great place to visit. 
warm hospitality
Hawaii is also known for its warm hospitality.
Hospitality is being friendly to visitors by doing things like entertaining them and giving them food. In this case, warm does not refer to temperature, but to friendly people and atmosphere. If someone is very caring and nice, they are called warm. Look at the examples below
introduced
Wallabies were introduced from Australia and now they are wild in Hawaii. 
To bring a plant or animal to a new place and give it a chance to reproduce and establish itself in the new environment. Notice the two examples below
snorkeling
Many people like to go snorkeling to look at our reefs. 
Snorkeling is swimming with a mask and breathing through a short, curved tube. Snorkelers also usually use flippers on their feet to help them swim easier. See the following examples
till
We have whales from March till February.
Till is simply a short way to say until. In written form usually the full word until is used and till is mostly used in spoken language. It is sometimes also spelled ‘til. See the examples below
sounds like
Sounds like a great place to visit.  Sounds like... means from what you are saying...
OK, Sophie, we're going to talk about high school. What was high school like?
It was great. Lots of fun. Lots of friends. Learned quite a bit at school.
So, what did you study in high school? 
I studied mainly sciences actually. 
Oh, really!
Biology.
Did you study science in college? 
Yes! Oh, No! I didn't. I went on to do a bachelor of technology.
Oh, really. Well, that's kind of similar.
Kind of similar. Related.
OK, what did you do in high school? Any clubs or anything?
Yeah, I did rowing for the school. I played basketball, played tennis, was on the swimming team.
Wow, you're quite athletic. What sport did you like the most?
Rowing.
Rowing. Do you still row?
No, unfortunately not.
Really!
Would like to.
Do you think you'll pick it up some time in the future?
Yeah, maybe, if I'm around a lake or a river.
Yeah! Not too many lakes in Tokyo. Um, anything esle? Any other memories about high school?
Yeah, lots of parties. It was good. 
Sounds like a good time.
Yeah!
